To do's:
Evaluate association rules by how often they were applied in the fixes:
-How many of these rules are actually useful for your use case? 
-Did you miss any useful rules by setting your thresholds too strictly?
Deepen the idea of why are we comparing against a randomly-informed baseline
Use the table environment for Figures 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7. These are tables.
Double check the values in Figure 4. The mean, stdev, and sum in the Replacements columns are certainly incorrect.
Check for contractions in formal writing.
Check the way this section describes the process: the greedy matching of edits to mutation operators
Say that we are not presenting the model because it is a pretty big matrix
Some questions to consider in the part where we describe how the model was built:
-How many instances of each mutation operation did you find in the bug-fixing commits? 
-How many edit operations output by GumTree did they cover? 
-How many edit operations could not be matched, why? 
Figure 5: Do these 24 bugs present all the single-edit bugs from the set of 395 bugs in Defects4J or is this only a subset?
Check this inconsistency: The results presented for the mutation operators and model utility show that the probabilistic models can provide fixes for 5 out of the 18 bugs. But, the dataset in Figure 5 states 24 bugs (what happened to the other 6 bugs?) 
Check why do we say that the quality improves in our patches if Fig 6 says that its the same?
Give more credibility to the projects selected, like: stars are proxies for well-maintained, stablished, bigger projects.
Explain why the latest 100 commits?
Why support value of 90%

Typos:

p1
"TrpAutoRepair [34]" -> "TrpAutoRepair [34],"
"potentially-fault" -> "potentially-faulty"
"operators they consider" -> "operators that they consider"

p2
"Github" -> "GitHub" (fix everywhere)
"human behavior we" -> "human behavior, we"

p3
"operators they" -> "operators that they"
"the Bottom section" -> "the bottom section"

p6
"We first we evaluate"
"previously-prosed"
"[20],Par"

p7
"available results available"
"most “March 2017” version"

p8
There are lots of problems with this extremely long paragraph/sentence: "One example demonstrating the quality improvement afforded by the probabilistic model-based approach is evident for the Clousre 18 bug. in which we can very clearly see the success of our approach when applying the probabilistic model is Closure 18 as seen in Figure 8 where, not only did our approach created the exact same patch as the human did, but also our approach was able to find the patch within the time frame specified before the execution is shutdown by one of the constraints per execution while other approaches that are able to create this patch, couldn’t because they ran out of time."

p10
"Defects4j.Finally"

* general: use "PAR" (instead of sometimes Par)
* general: label Tables with Table (and not Figure)
* p7,c2: ... rarely applied by ...
* p8,c2: ... is evident for the Closure 18 bug. As seen in Figure 8 ...
* p8,c2: ... did our approach create ...
* p8,c2: ... includes a mutation ...
* p9,c1: ... in all the top mined ...
* p10,c1: ... using a graph-based ...
